Add documentation for downloading ERA5 and GLORYS data (#339)
CWorthy-ocean/roms-tools: docs/datasets.md

|  | -                      | `ratio_m2s`              | Ratio of volume between river mouth and station                                                  |  |      |
|  | -                      | `riv_name`              | River name                                                  |  |      |
|  | -                      | `vol_stn` (optional)             | Annual volume at station                                                  |  |      |

# Downloading ERA5 and GLORYS

## Prerequisites

Install 2 packages into your conda python environment:

**Copernicusmarine**: https://pypi.org/project/copernicusmarine/<br />
**cdsapi**: https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/cdsapi

## GLORYS

### Setup

> Instructions on installation and how to set up account credentials, in the shell: [here](https://help.marine.copernicus.eu/en/articles/7970514-copernicus-marine-toolbox-installation)<br />
> But, essentially do:
> - 1st need to make an account with marine.copernicus: https://marine.copernicus.eu/
> - Export account credentials in `~/.bashrc`:
> - Linux:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the instructions [here](https://help.marine.copernicus.eu/en/articles/7970514-copernicus-marine-toolbox-installation). The `TLDR;` is:

- Install the Copernicus Marine Toolbox in your environment
- Make an account with [Copernicus Marine](https://marine.copernicus.eu/)
- Configure environment variables for your shell (e.g. `~/.bashrc`):

```

- Removed rogue comma
- Removed unnecessary colon in 1st bullet point
- Avoid verbosity of "but, essentially"
- Removed redundant "1st " (since it's the first bullet point).
    - Removed "need to ..." from "need to make ..."
- Added working link to marine.copernicus.eu
- Fixed incorrect naming of "Copernicus Marine" (was marine.copernicus)
- Removed "linux" bullet point since we don't duplicate other platforms

years = ['2012']
months = ['01','02','03','04','05']
days = [31,29,31,30,31]
for y in years:
  for count,m in enumerate(months):
    for d in range(1,days[count]+1):
      if d < 10:
        extra_str='0'
      else:
        extra_str=''
      copernicusmarine.subset(
        dataset_id="cmems_mod_glo_phy_my_0.083deg_P1D-m",
        variables=["so", "thetao", "uo", "vo", "zos"],
        minimum_longitude=-75,
        maximum_longitude=-15,
        minimum_latitude=2,
        maximum_latitude=50,
        start_datetime= y + "-" + m + "-" + extra_str + str(d) + "T00:00:00",
        end_datetime= y + "-" + m + "-" + extra_str + str(d) + "T00:00:00",
        minimum_depth=0.49402499198913574,
        maximum_depth=5727.9,
)
```
## ERA5

### Setup

Instructions on installation and how to set up account credentials, in the shell: [here](https://help.marine.copernicus.eu/en/articles/7970514-copernicus-marine-toolbox-installation)

But, essentially do:

- Make account at: https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/
- Login on the web
- Setup the api: https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/how-to-api
    - Add this to `$HOME/.cdsapirc`:

```bash
url: https://cds.climate.copernicus.eu/api

> key: 77deaea8-7d41-4b8e-967f-90d6d1849c0e

Reviewer: Please ensure this is not a valid key for your account.

# before using this script, you must be in an environment with cdsapi installed

import cdsapi
import zipfile
import shutil
import os
from tempfile import mkdtemp

for yr in range(2017,2023):
    for m in range(1,13):
        dataset = "reanalysis-era5-single-levels"
        request = {
            "product_type": ["reanalysis"],
            "variable": [
                "10m_u_component_of_wind",
                "10m_v_component_of_wind",
                "2m_dewpoint_temperature",
                "2m_temperature",
                "sea_surface_temperature",
                "total_precipitation",
                "surface_net_solar_radiation",
                "surface_thermal_radiation_downwards"
            ],
            "year": [str(yr)],
            "month": [str(m).zfill(2)],
            "day": [
                "01", "02", "03",
                "04", "05", "06",
                "07", "08", "09",
                "10", "11", "12",
                "13", "14", "15",
                "16", "17", "18",
                "19", "20", "21",
                "22", "23", "24",
                "25", "26", "27",
                "28", "29", "30",
                "31"
            ],

>             "time": [

Reviewer: See [sample gist](https://gist.github.com/ankona/5e7471233810f4b8761191bf2716ff63#file-cds_helper-py-L143) if you want to avoid hardcoding times and days.

                "00:00", "01:00", "02:00",
                "03:00", "04:00", "05:00",
                "06:00", "07:00", "08:00",
                "09:00", "10:00", "11:00",
                "12:00", "13:00", "14:00",
                "15:00", "16:00", "17:00",
                "18:00", "19:00", "20:00",
                "21:00", "22:00", "23:00"
            ],
            "data_format": "netcdf",
            "download_format": "zip",
#            "area": [80, -295, -80, -40]
        }

>         target = dataset+ '_' + str(yr)  + '-' + str(m).zfill(2)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        target = f"{dataset}_{yr}-{m:02}"
```

Consider f-strings for readability
